Test Plan
-----------
Scope of Testing:
Test the functionality of the login page
In Scope:
1. Correct credentials for a successfull login
2. Incorrect credentials for an unsuccessful login
3. Empty credentials for an unsuccessful login
4. Provided username, but empty password for an unsuccessful login
5. Empty username, but provided password for an unsuccessful login
6. Selecting Forgot password, and inputting an email format
7. Selecting Forgot password, and inputting an invalid email format
8. Selecting "Forgot Username"

Out of Scope:
Navigation of the home page once successfully logged in
Navigation of "Forgot username" once selected 
Remember Me check box

Testing Approach
------------------
Functional Testing

Test Cases
----------
Feature- Login Functionality of GDIT site

Scenario: Successful login with correct credentials
	Given: User is on the login page
	When: The user enters correct email and password
	AND: The user clicks on the Sign-in button
	Then: The user should be successfully logged in and redirected to the homepage

Scenario: Unsuccessful login with incorrect credentials
	Given: User is on the login page
	When: The user enters an incorrect email and/or password
	AND: The user clicks the Sign-In button
	Then: The user should should receive a display error message of "Incorrect email or password"


Scenario: Unsuccessful login with empty credentials
	Given: User is on the login page
	When: The user does not input an email and password
	AND: The user clicks the Sign-In button
	Then: The user should should receive a display error message of "Username and/or Password cannot be empty"

Scenario: Unsuccesful login with partial credentials
	Given:User is on the login page
	When: The user inputs correct email but empty password
	AND: The user clicks the Sign-in button
	Then: The user should should receive a display error message of "Username and/or Password cannot be empty"

Scenario: Unsuccesful login with partial credentials
	Given:User is on the login page
	When: The user inputs correct password but empty email
	AND: The user clicks the Sign-in button
	Then: The user should should receive a display error message of "Username and/or Password cannot be empty"

Scenario: Access forgot password link
	Given:User is on the login page
	When: The user clicks "Forgot password" link
	Then: The user is redirected to the recovery page for forgotten password

Scenario:An email is provided in forgot password link
	Given: User is on the Forgot Password page
	When: User inputs an email address
	And: User clicks "Send email"
	Then: User should receive display message "If your email is on file, you will receive a reset password link"

Scenario:Text that isn't in email format is provided in forgot password link
	Given: User is on the Forgot Password page
	When: User inputs non email format text
	And: User clicks "Send email"
	Then: User should receive display error message "Please provide a valid email ending in e.g.  @email.com"

Scenario:Selecting "Forgot Username" hyperlink
	Given: User is on the Forgot Password page
	When: User Clicks "forgot username?"
	Then: The user is redirected to the recovery page for forgotten username